README.adoc, before:

= xc
generic cross compiling toolkit


WARNING: Note that "target" is used in two senses.  A "build target"
is something to be constructed by the build process, so one could
reasonably think of the output directory where such products are
placed as a kind of target dir.  But in "target arch" and similar
"target" refers not to a build product but to the arch etc. for which
we are building products.  So some TARGET_x vars refer to the latter,
some to the former.  For example, TARGET_PREFIX controls where some
build products are to be placed, but TARGET_SYSROOT refers to a
filesystem location where target-arch binaries, include files etc. are
to be read by the build process.  We never use TARGET_ to refer to
writable output directories; instead we use BUILD_ and INSTALL_.

=== Definition of Terms

* XC_SDK - Cross Compile SDK name, e.g. edison
* XC_SDK_HOME - e.g. /opt/poky-edison/1.7.3

==== prefixes

* PREFIX - this is the standard autotools/make prefix, which
  determines where built products will be /installed/.  Always interpreted
  relative to the appropriate SYSROOT (see below) and TARGET_PREFIX.
  The PREFIX will be the same for all builds.  Default: `/usr/local`

NOTE: PREFIX is only used to control installation of final build
products; it is not used to control placement of intermediate build
products.

Installation of build products is determined by:

[source,sh]
----
${INSTALL_SYSROOT}/${INSTALL_DIR}/${TARGET_PREFIX}/${PREFIX}
e.g.
/tmp/iotivity/sysroots/android/armeabi-v7a/release/usr/local
----



* TARGET_PREFIX - this is like PREFIX, but is build-specific, which
  allows us to build for multiple targets on one host system.  Its
  form is `<platform>/<arch>/<stage>`, e.g.

[source,sh]
----
android/armeabi-v7a/release
----

[source,sh]
----
${BUILD_SYSROOT}/${BUILD_DIR}/${TARGET_PREFIX}
e.g.
/tmp/iotivity/builds/android/armeabi-v7a/release
----


==== sysroots

A sysroot is a directory that serves as a virtual filesystem root, the
conceptual equivalent of "/" on a standard Unix-like system.

* TOOLCHAIN_SYSROOT - a directory within the cross-compile sdk
  containing cross-compile tools etc.  All tool binaries under this
  directory will be HOST_ARCH binaries that emit TARGET_ARCH binaries.
  For example, the TOOLCHAIN_SYSROOT for the Edison cross-compile kit
  is

[source,sh]
----
/opt/poky-edison/1.7.3/sysroots/i386-pokysdk-darwin
----

* TARGET_SYSROOT - a directory within the xc sdk containing
  target-specific artifacts.  All binaries under this directory will
  be TARGET_ARCH binaries.  Also contains target-specific headers etc.
  For example, the TARGET_SYSROOT of the Edison cross-compile kit is

[source,sh]
----
/opt/poky-edison/1.7.3/sysroots/core2-32-poky-linux
----

The previous two sysroots are read-only; the next two are read-write:

* BUILD_SYSROOT - this is where intermediate build products go.  For
  example, with Iotivity this defaults to `${IOTIVITY_HOME}`, but it
  can be set to anything, e.g. `/tmp/iotivity`.  The actual output
  directory will be formed by combining this with BUILD_DIR, which
  defaults to `build` (previously: `out`), and TARGET_PREFIX, which is
  `<platform>/<target_arch>/<stage>`, yielding something like:

[source,sh]
----
/tmp/iotivity/build/android/armeabi-v7a/release
----

* INSTALL_SYSROOT - this is where final build products will be
  installed.  If TARGET=HOST (i.e. we're not cross-compiling), this
  will be NIL, so installation will be to `${PREFIX}`(default:
  `/usr/local`).  For cross-compilation, this will be some other
  directory.  For example, with Iotivity this defaults to
  `${IOTIVITY_HOME}`, but it can be set to anything,
  e.g. `/tmp/iotivity`.  The actual output directory will be formed by
  combining this with INSTALL_DIR, which defaults to `sysroots`,
  TARGET_PREFIX, which is `<platform>/<target_arch>/<stage>`, and
  PREFIX, yielding something like:

[source,sh]
----
/tmp/iotivity/sysroots/android/armeabi-v7a/release/usr/local
----

==== toolchain vars

* TOOLCHAIN_SYSROOT  - read-only, usually a directory under TOOLCHAIN_HOME; not to be confused with TARGET_SYSROOT
* TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX - used to construct tool names like `i586-poky-linux-gcc`.


==== target vars

* TARGET_PLATFORM - e.g. android, edison, linux, osx, etc.
* TARGET_PLATFORM_VERSION
* TARGET_OS
* TARGET_OS_VERSION
* TARGET_ARCH
* TARGET_ARCH_ABI - e.g. armeabi-v7a, x86, etc.
* TARGET_SYSROOT - read-only, usually a directory under TOOLCHAIN_HOME

==== tools

Cross-compile toolkits contain a subset of a standard set of tools
such as `ar`, `gcc`, `ranlib`, etc.  Most commonly these are named
using a TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX; for example, the Edison cross-compile
toolkit uses `i586-poky-linux`, so gcc is `i586-poky-linux-gcc`.

* ADDR2LINE=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-addr2line
* AR="${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-ar"
* AS="${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-as"
* CC=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-gcc
* CPP=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-gcc
* CXX=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-g++
* CXXFILT=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-c++filt
* ELFEDIT=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-elfedit
* GCOV=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-gcov
* GDB=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-gdb
* GPROF=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-gprof
* LD=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-ld
* NM=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-nm
* OBJCOPY=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-objcopy
* OBJDUMP=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-objdump
* RANLIB=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-ranlib
* READELF=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-readelf
* SIZE=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-size
* STRINGS=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-strings
* STRIP=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-strip

NOTE: Linking C+ + code with LD often (always?) won't work, so LD
should be set to ${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-g++ in such cases.

Commit message:

add README, gtest/README, etc.
Signed-off-by: Gregg Reynolds <reynolds-gregg@norc.org>

README.adoc, after:

= xc
generic cross compiling toolkit


This is a collection of files to be `source` ed in order to set the
environment variables needed to support cross-compilation.

It also includes a simple Makefile for building GoogleTest
appropriately.  See the link:gtest/README.adoc[README.adoc] in link:gtest/README.adoc[./gtest].

WARNING: Note that "target" is used in two senses.  A "build target"
is something to be constructed by the build process, so one could
reasonably think of the output directory where such products are
placed as a kind of target dir.  But in "target arch" and similar
"target" refers not to a build product but to the arch etc. for which
we are building products.  So some TARGET_x vars refer to the latter,
some to the former.  For example, TARGET_PREFIX controls where some
build products are to be placed, but TARGET_SYSROOT refers to a
filesystem location where target-arch binaries, include files etc. are
to be read by the build process.  We never use TARGET_ to refer to
writable output directories; instead we use BUILD_ and INSTALL_.

=== Definition of Terms

* XC_SDK - Cross Compile SDK name, e.g. edison
* XC_SDK_HOME - e.g. /opt/poky-edison/1.7.3

==== prefixes

* PREFIX - this is the standard autotools/make prefix, which
  determines where built products will be /installed/.  Always interpreted
  relative to the appropriate SYSROOT (see below) and TARGET_PREFIX.
  The PREFIX will be the same for all builds.  Default: `/usr/local`

NOTE: PREFIX is only used to control installation of final build
products; it is not used to control placement of intermediate build
products.

Installation of build products is determined by:

[source,sh]
----
${INSTALL_SYSROOT}/${INSTALL_DIR}/${TARGET_PREFIX}/${PREFIX}
e.g.
/tmp/iotivity/sysroots/android/armeabi-v7a/release/usr/local
----



* TARGET_PREFIX - this is like PREFIX, but is build-specific, which
  allows us to build for multiple targets on one host system.  Its
  form is `<platform>/<arch>/<stage>`, e.g.

[source,sh]
----
android/armeabi-v7a/release
----

[source,sh]
----
${BUILD_SYSROOT}/${BUILD_DIR}/${TARGET_PREFIX}
e.g.
/tmp/iotivity/builds/android/armeabi-v7a/release
----


==== sysroots

A sysroot is a directory that serves as a virtual filesystem root, the
conceptual equivalent of "/" on a standard Unix-like system.

* TOOLCHAIN_SYSROOT - a directory within the cross-compile sdk
  containing cross-compile tools etc.  All tool binaries under this
  directory will be HOST_ARCH binaries that emit TARGET_ARCH binaries.
  For example, the TOOLCHAIN_SYSROOT for the Edison cross-compile kit
  is

[source,sh]
----
/opt/poky-edison/1.7.3/sysroots/i386-pokysdk-darwin
----

* TARGET_SYSROOT - a directory within the xc sdk containing
  target-specific artifacts.  All binaries under this directory will
  be TARGET_ARCH binaries.  Also contains target-specific headers etc.
  For example, the TARGET_SYSROOT of the Edison cross-compile kit is

[source,sh]
----
/opt/poky-edison/1.7.3/sysroots/core2-32-poky-linux
----

The previous two sysroots are read-only; the next two are read-write:

* BUILD_SYSROOT - this is where intermediate build products go.  For
  example, with Iotivity this defaults to `${IOTIVITY_HOME}`, but it
  can be set to anything, e.g. `/tmp/iotivity`.  The actual output
  directory will be formed by combining this with BUILD_DIR, which
  defaults to `build` (previously: `out`), and TARGET_PREFIX, which is
  `<platform>/<target_arch>/<stage>`, yielding something like:

[source,sh]
----
/tmp/iotivity/build/android/armeabi-v7a/release
----

* INSTALL_SYSROOT - this is where final build products will be
  installed.  If TARGET=HOST (i.e. we're not cross-compiling), this
  will be NIL, so installation will be to `${PREFIX}`(default:
  `/usr/local`).  For cross-compilation, this will be some other
  directory.  For example, with Iotivity this defaults to
  `${IOTIVITY_HOME}`, but it can be set to anything,
  e.g. `/tmp/iotivity`.  The actual output directory will be formed by
  combining this with INSTALL_DIR, which defaults to `sysroots`,
  TARGET_PREFIX, which is `<platform>/<target_arch>/<stage>`, and
  PREFIX, yielding something like:

[source,sh]
----
/tmp/iotivity/sysroots/android/armeabi-v7a/release/usr/local
----

==== toolchain vars

* TOOLCHAIN_SYSROOT  - read-only, usually a directory under TOOLCHAIN_HOME; not to be confused with TARGET_SYSROOT
* TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX - used to construct tool names like `i586-poky-linux-gcc`.


==== target vars

* TARGET_PLATFORM - e.g. android, edison, linux, osx, etc.
* TARGET_PLATFORM_VERSION
* TARGET_OS
* TARGET_OS_VERSION
* TARGET_ARCH
* TARGET_ARCH_ABI - e.g. armeabi-v7a, x86, etc.
* TARGET_SYSROOT - read-only, usually a directory under TOOLCHAIN_HOME

==== tools

Cross-compile toolkits contain a subset of a standard set of tools
such as `ar`, `gcc`, `ranlib`, etc.  Most commonly these are named
using a TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX; for example, the Edison cross-compile
toolkit uses `i586-poky-linux`, so gcc is `i586-poky-linux-gcc`.

* ADDR2LINE=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-addr2line
* AR="${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-ar"
* AS="${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-as"
* CC=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-gcc
* CPP=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-gcc
* CXX=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-g++
* CXXFILT=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-c++filt
* ELFEDIT=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-elfedit
* GCOV=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-gcov
* GDB=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-gdb
* GPROF=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-gprof
* LD=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-ld
* NM=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-nm
* OBJCOPY=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-objcopy
* OBJDUMP=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-objdump
* RANLIB=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-ranlib
* READELF=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-readelf
* SIZE=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-size
* STRINGS=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-strings
* STRIP=${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-strip

NOTE: Linking C+ + code with LD often (always?) won't work, so LD
should be set to ${TOOLCHAIN_BIN_PREFIX}-g++ in such cases.
